class-01.md, before:

---
title: "Class 01: Our computers are trainwrecks, welcome to life"
---

## In-class summary

We started off with the easy stuff: [reviewing the syllabus](../syllabus/).

Then we started **downloading software**, and found out [downloading and running software is complicated!](../downloading-software/) The main focus was installing Python with [Python Wrangler](http://littlecolumns.com/tools/python-wrangler/).

Most of our setup happened on the **command line**, which was generally new territory. We learned [how to run commands on the terminal](../running-cli-commands/), what to do [when the command line asks for your password](../passwords/), and talked a little bit about [package managers](../package-managers/) (which Homebrew is an example of). We tried to google our way to some solutions, but only learned one thing: [never use sudo!](../using-sudo/)

For the command line, Windows people used [Cmder](https://cmder.net/) while OS X people used Terminal (which we discovered could be hiding [bash or zsh](../bash-vs-zsh/)). **The difference between bash and zsh** caused some trouble, especially when pyenv asked us to edit the [shell startup files](../startup-files-for-shells/). These startup files are used to [set up the PATH variable](../path/), so when we type a command the computer knows how to look for it.

Running commands can [end up causing trouble sometimes](../running-cli-commands/), but that's just the tip of the iceberg. Based on what we're doing (Python? command line? SQL?) we might end up with [**different prompts** that can run completely different commands](../different-prompts/)! We didn't talk about it during class, but I promise it's going to be a common problem we run into when working with SQL.

## Homework

For your homework, you're going to be working on the skills you learned from the [Python tutorial](http://littlecolumns.com/learn/python), and turning your [Terminus](https://web.mit.edu/mprat/Public/web/Terminus/Web/main.html) abilities into real-life command line powers.

There will also be a quiz about some of the terms we learned and used during class. The material above should get you to the finish line on that one.

Commit message:

added video for first class

class-01.md, after:

---
title: "Class 01: Our computers are trainwrecks, welcome to life"
---

## In-class summary

We started off with the easy stuff: [reviewing the syllabus](../syllabus/).

Then we started **downloading software**, and found out [downloading and running software is complicated!](../downloading-software/) The main focus was installing Python with [Python Wrangler](http://littlecolumns.com/tools/python-wrangler/).

Most of our setup happened on the **command line**, which was generally new territory. We learned [how to run commands on the terminal](../running-cli-commands/), what to do [when the command line asks for your password](../passwords/), and talked a little bit about [package managers](../package-managers/) (which Homebrew is an example of). We tried to google our way to some solutions, but only learned one thing: [never use sudo!](../using-sudo/)

For the command line, Windows people used [Cmder](https://cmder.net/) while OS X people used Terminal (which we discovered could be hiding [bash or zsh](../bash-vs-zsh/)). **The difference between bash and zsh** caused some trouble, especially when pyenv asked us to edit the [shell startup files](../startup-files-for-shells/). These startup files are used to [set up the PATH variable](../path/), so when we type a command the computer knows how to look for it.

Running commands can [end up causing trouble sometimes](../running-cli-commands/), but that's just the tip of the iceberg. Based on what we're doing (Python? command line? SQL?) we might end up with [**different prompts** that can run completely different commands](../different-prompts/)! We didn't talk about it during class, but I promise it's going to be a common problem we run into when working with SQL.

Another thing we didn't get to was [how to run Python scripts from the command line](../how-to-run-python-files). In your pre-work all you did was type in little boxes! Don't worry, though, [I made a quick video for you](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uUIlwDPmztg).

## Homework

For your homework, you're going to be working on the skills you learned from the [Python tutorial](http://littlecolumns.com/learn/python), and turning your [Terminus](https://web.mit.edu/mprat/Public/web/Terminus/Web/main.html) abilities into real-life command line powers.

There will also be a quiz about some of the terms we learned and used during class. The material above should get you to the finish line on that one.
